(ethereal instrumental music)
Much can be explained regarding the
challenge of being human,
from the way in which we come into the world.
That's according to Elena Tonetti Vladimirova.
As a young Soviet woman from Siberia,
Elena sought enlightened answers
about the soul, birth and creative community.
She was magnetically attracted to a group of young people,
who chose to break out of the repression of Soviet life,
to create space for themselves, joy, and family.
With this intention, she came in contact
with Igor Charkovsky,
a Rasputin-like visionary,
who taught progressive young Soviets
about underwater birthing,
including birthing with dolphins.
Elena was by his side as his assistant for a few years,
before stepping onto her own life long path,
of conscious birthing.
How pervasive is it,
that each one of us walking around on this planet
have experienced some sort of trauma,
associated with our entry into the world,
our births?
(Elena sighs heavily)
To my estimation, it's about 98%
of people.
Legal statistics says 95%, but it's a fine line.
Where do you draw the line, you know?
Depends what do you use as a criteria of blissful birth,
or just a normal birth, when,
you didn't show any kind of, um, you know, damage.
Mmhmm.
So--
But in reality, what's happening to us,
and the ways in which we've been brought into the world now,
for the last few decades, in particular.
And also, some of your own background,
and the way people have been brought into the world.
You came from a city in Siberia,
that had their own practices.
We know what the practices are in the United States,
Mmhmm.
and much of the West.
Talk about what has been, and what--
the extent of the trauma, and its effect on our lives
as a result of what we have been doing.
Yeah, the--
It was not just inside Siberia.
It was unanimous,
spread through all 11 time zones in Russia.
That kind of practice.
From the early '20's, the practice was that,
all the babies were delivered in the
State birth facility.
It's that standard three-story building-- barrack basically.
Mmhmm.
The first floor was for abortions.
The abortions was the only known form
of birth control at that time.
And encouraged.
In the generation of my mother,
Mmhmm.
the average amount of abortions per woman
was 23.
(Regina gasps)
Done without anesth--
Oh my--
any kind of anesthetics.
Oh my God--
Yeah.
I had no idea that that was the--
Why didn't they offer birth control?
Was there--
It was not known of.
Were there condoms, or?
It was not known of, but also,
was scarcely available.
Yes.
It was available, but, it was, you know.
Soviet kind of condom. (laughs)
Goodness.
So maybe it wasn't that well-made anyway. (laughs)
No offense.
It would be, you know, unthinkable,
to expect a Russian man to put one of those on.
Okay, so we have psychology--
Right.
culture, a lot of things involved.
Also, right.
Lots of things.
Also, there was no Sex Ed.
No sexual education, yeah.
There was no information about,
why, when people get pregnant, so.
So first floor is abortions--
Yeah.
And also, there is very little space,
so families couldn't have multiple children--
Right.
Right, there is a saying in Russia.
If you have a child, you are a good woman.
If you have two children, you're a national hero.
If you have three children, you're an idiot.
Mmhmm, okay.
That was reflecting the situation, you know, was,
(laughs) child-producing in Soviet Russia at the time.
Well, and, we've ta-- we were talking earlier.
For practical reasons,
if you're living in a postage stamp apartment,
with your in-laws and everybody else--
Right. Right.
in another barracks-like building--
Right.
you can't fit a lot of children in.
There's simply no physical space to put them--
Yeah.
and the crib, there's-- you know.
Where do you put it?
On the dining table?
So you go to the abortion clinic on Floor One.
Yeah.
And every morning there would be
lines curling up around the block,
women
waiting their turn to get
an abortion.
So basically, by the time a woman gets on the 2nd Floor--
Which is--
where all the laboring women are--
Okay.
she already been in the 1st Floor a few times,
and she already has relationships with this building,
and with that place, and with her--
A very negative--
her ability to procreate.
Yeah.
And, basically, that was not a happy place,
and it's just one big space where all this
dozens of women are all in labor at the same time,
completely stressed out,
in those horrible bags of, you know,
hospital robe.
Shaved badly.
They would be shaved like, (pfffew) like this--
Yeah.
with cuts and then--
You know, just--
being basically abused by the personnel.
Called names.
Being slapped sometimes, and, yelled at, and.
And all the husbands are not even allowed in the building.
Mmm.
They would be standing, a big crowd of men,
outside, you know, with flowers,
just looking in the windows,
Oh.
trying to find where his wife is,
and if--
I remember those scenes from my childhood.
Passing by-- riding in a trolley,
looking, windows, covered with those pale scared faces,
looking for their husbands.
And the-- this crowd of husbands, and,
it's cold, so, they would be in those black fur hats--
Yeah. Yeah.
And coats, so it's this crowd of black men,
just writing on the snow, "I love you," and--
Oh.
and sticking flowers in the snow, and,
it just was such a pathetic, pathetic scene.
Nobody was looking forward to going to this place,
and then, on the 3rd Floor,
there would be all the babies,
stored, you know, in their little boxes--
Mmhmm.
alone.
Babies were taken away for five days after birth.
(gasps) Five days.
What was the thinking there?
Besides to just break the bond with the mother?
What could they be thinking?
I don't think there was much thinking involved.
But what was the rationale for taking a--
when they need to nurse?
To give the mother to rest.
Just to--
"You should be resting." (laugh)
Well, the baby needed
sustenance and bonding.
Well, the baby needed sustenance,
and the mother needed, you know, to relieve her breasts,
To bond, yes.
because by the time a baby is
given to her five days later--
Oh boy--
her-- the breasts are--
painful.
painful to look at,
nevermind put it into a baby's mouth, you know?
And babies were given sugary water with tranquilizers
the whole time, to keep them quiet.
It's basically, that absurd twilight zone kind of
reality of Mother Russia,
that is the reflection of this orphanage mentality.
This is the (laughs) you know, direct consequence,
of the way babies were treated for few generations.
Nothing makes much sense,
and the main thing is,
very difficult for people to come together,
to do something.
That's why, what I was describing earlier,
has such an amazing meaning, because,
the community is something that is
so out of comfort zone for Russian people.
That loneliness is programmed into our nervous system.
It's basically, by the time five days are over,
on baby's time, it equals to eternity.
There is no
expectation
by the time of, five days are over,
the baby is not expecting
that there is anybody, somebody, out there
in this whole universe,
that will know how to meet baby's needs.
What an enlightening story,
that you've just shared.
I had no idea.
Yeah.
I mean, we thought it was harsh,
in American hospitals, to have a baby delivered.
And it's a different situation.
But that is-- brought to my eyes just to hear you
talk about how harsh that was.
Yeah.
Then, so no surprise for you,
as a compassionate being--
Yeah.
who was already being exposed to,
whole new horizons of thinking,
and a mover and shaker,
in the arena of creating new communities,
based on fundamental truths that are whole and good,
Yeah.
that you would find yourself
gravitating toward birth.
And what was the step for you,
that took you into conscious birth, then?
Well, that's a thing that, um,
I was deeply in love with my husband, who was,
conducting these amazing
games, the seminars--
Yes.
He was absolutely dedicated to improving life,
in our Motherland.
And that's actually where we met.
I saw him at one of the games where I was invited to attend.
And it just impressed me so deeply, and this whole,
approach of trying to improve
the quality of life of the people.
And it was such an effective way of doing so.
So, when I started traveling with him,
conducting those games,
at this time, I was asked to meet with this man,
Igor Charkovsky.
That he has some brilliant idea,
but he's alone trying to,
you know, promote it, for 20 years,
and he's gotten nowhere with it.
It's only five women who sort of are listening to him,
and the rest of the world can not comprehend
why a self-respecting laboring woman
would get in the water.
Mmhmm.
You know, it's like,
"Could you please talk to him,
"and I know that you are working with this,
"brainstorming technologies, so"--
Mmhmm.
"could you maybe, help him to get his--
"Sounds like he's got something really good,
"so maybe you could help him."
So because the person I,
the person who asked me, I respect him a lot,
I agreed to meet with him.
And our meeting lasted for four hours.
In four hours, Igor Charkovsky basically downloaded
about 25 years of his
research in the field of prenatal psychology.
And at that time, of course, there was no such term,
prenatal psychology.
Or, neither would he call it research.
He was just basically,
basically, connecting the dots.
It was-- he--
If there is a Siberian Shaman,
ever, surviving, you know, all the hardships of
Soviet reality,
he is the one.
He has this amazing ability
to perceive through time and space,
to look into the past and the future.
He has one of those, really Earthy, Rasputin-type,
kind of personalities, very,
wild and socially inappropriate, but,
absolutely brilliant healer and very powerful,
charismatic being.
But at the same time, he couldn't really,
communicate himself properly, with the,
speed of his downloads--
Yes.
of what is, his speech would be, confused.
You know, in one sentence there would be
pieces from five different realities, and--
Yes.
of five different universes,
and it was really hard for him to communicate himself,
but somehow I was able to understand what he was saying.
And, by the time the four hours were over,
I got the scoop.
It was very clear to me that everything
we're doing with our games,
is just putting bandaids on big wounds that,
you know, are being created over and over,
with the birth of every citizen.
So, everything we were doing,
was absolutely inefficient,
because the mess keeps multiplying proportionately.
And basically, he just said, you know,
"If you want to get to the core of the problem,
"you need to change the way we are born."
And it was (sighs deeply) such a clear
vision and understanding.
I went home, and I said,
"This (laughs) is what we're doing now."
Mmhmm.
So we started meeting weekly,
weekly, with our
16-people strong team of--
Game technicians, you called yourself,
Game technicians.
as I recall in our last talk, yes.
Yes, so, yeah, and,
spin that whole magic theater, into trying to figure out,
how to, um,
how to reach,
the women, the young men.
How to make them know about
the implications of the quality of
the way they conceive and gestate the new baby, and,
the way they give birth.
How do we (laughs) spread the message?
Yes.
And, pretty soon,
it was a whole movement.
Classes were going, and,
because nobody really knew anything about it,
we had to, basically,
invent, from scratch.
We were looking for every piece of
knowledge or advice.
Medical school did not provide any information,
because it was all about how to manipulate
the woman and the baby.
And we were trying to find a way
how to avoid any kind of
manipulation or complication.
So, Igor Charkovsky, of course,
was the key person at that time, because,
with his ability to see, just--
Mmhmm.
He is a seer, he's
just a psychic.
(laughs) Genius.
(mumbles) soul that can connect
information from everywhere, yeah.
And he is a genius.
Yeah.
He still is.
He is now in his mid-70's, but,
as strong and charismatic and
beautiful and powerful as he was--
Mmhmm.
thirty years ago, when I met him.
And basically, he was guiding us through
understanding of how it is all connected.
The continuing concept
in the family female lineage.
How a pregnant woman
is a reflection of her
past emotional and psychological
landscape, and how that is affected
by her mother's emotional life,
and how that is affected by her grandmother's,
and great-grandmother's.
And how that lineage is absolutely intertwined,
and pregnancy activates
everything that was there unresolved,
and left, sort of stagnant,
for eons, who knows?
Mmhmm.
And with Igor's ability to perceive that reality,
he was teaching us--
With every woman, we would learn
a new world of connections and correlations,
and how to neutralize the dependency from those
past situations, and the past situation,
could be basically anything, but, mainly the,
reason for complications at birth,
was coming up as a betrayal of love.
Mmhmm.
Isn't that interesting?
That it--
That's what he was seeing,
Yeah.
in this continuum.
A betrayal of love,
which almost every human being
A betrayal of love, I know, yeah--
has experienced.
And it could be that
a woman's love was betrayed, or,
she betrayed, um--
Mmhmm.
some true love.
And it could be, you know, at the age 13, or,
first grade or something.
Or their high school sweetheart.
Or actually, directly with the father of the baby.
Or when the mother was pregnant with this woman,
so with the father of this woman.
Or, the father of this baby, so--
Yes.
It's like, a holographic
picture evolves, how,
when you zoom in to one particular situation,
and all of a sudden, um,
the whole lifetime unfolds,
in that one particular place.
You know what I mean?
Mmhmm.
And, when we were learning,
how it all intertwined and connected,
we started to learn, how do we undo,
our dependency on that continue.
How can we neutralize all the negativity
that is stored in our genes and our cells,
in our emotional body?
And not only in our family lineage, but also, you know,
in the parallel dimension from our past lives.
Yes.
So there is horizontal--
Huge part.
and vertical part.
Exactly.
That we don't start,
with this, you know, pregnancy.
And they're,
just like the intersection of the
horizontal and the vertical,
they're inextricably intertwined.
The choice of that--
Right.
bloodline, that DNA line.
The emotional connections of the past
and past lives, it's so complicated.
Absolutely, absolutely.
So complex.
Absolutely.
The good news is,
that all that complexity
could be perceived from, the point is,
whatever happened happened.
Now, all we need to do is actually work with,
not with what happened.
Mmhmm.
But how it is still holding us.
And this is what you worked with, he showed you--
Right.
or he, passed on to you, his understanding.
Yeah.
And, is that something you can go into?
Or is it something that's really so broad, it's more part of
a course, you know, that people come to for--
Right, it is part of the course.
Yeah.
The thing that I can sort of
offer right now, is that,
I don't do what he does,
Mmhmm.
because I'm not him.
So, over the years, I developed my own way of
working with it,
and it's just the piece of understanding
how it all works and how it's all connected
that's the basic gift.
Mmhmm.
And of course, there is some direct transmission,
because I worked closely with him.
Basically, I was his right hand
for a few years.
And couldn't help it,
but (laughs) get a lot of--
Yes.
pieces from that, but, basically,
what I do is, create a space
for people to come in, and,
I call that space the Birthing Field.
So, I work with groups.
I don't work with individuals.
So when a group comes together,
and we just start calling forth that
vortex of energy that is
spiraling the-- any birthing field.
This is the thing, the birthing field
is that powerful spiraling stream of energy.
And um, create, um,
create this group dynamic that,
allows each individual in the group go,
right where they need to go.
And that would be a different place,
because they come from a different place,
Mmhmm.
with different kind of,
degree of, um,
Trauma?
trauma, with different level of their
own personal evolution, so,
it's not up to me,
to do something for them.
It's their journey,
so I'm just holding the space,
for them to have their journey.
Mmhmm.
Now,
when we go into more the,
are you, mostly,
are you mostly suggesting that
waterbirth is the way for people to go?
Or is that--
Let me start that again. (laughs)
So after all these years of experience,
are you suggesting, then, that water birth would,
for example,
be the best avenue for all of us to be birthed through?
No.
Okay.
No, I absolutely do not promote or recommend
any particular kind of delivery.
Water can be very helpful for a lot of women and babies,
and it just, you know, anybody could--
who likes taking a bath, would benefit from--
Mmhmm.
spending that time in a bath.
But some babies are not water babies, and so--
Okay, let's talk about that.
How do you know what is appropriate in that sense?
How does the mother know whether this is a water baby,
or not a water baby?
Right.
Would this be astrologically-based, or-- (laughs)
Yeah, I wouldn't know.
Right.
The baby would tell.
The bab-- mmhmm.
See, that's the whole point,
to develop such relationship with the baby,
during pregnancy,
that the baby will very clearly communicate
what kind of birth they want,
whether it's in the water, or,
in the forest in a cave,
or in the bedroom in the quiet,
with candles and soft music,
or on a high mountain,
or having a C-section.
That's a possibility, too, that,
that particular baby, you know,
whatever their sole agenda is,
that brings them here.
Maybe they require a C-section in order to
work with the set of circumstances.
So, but I-- what I am promoting,
is consciousness, in the process of
creating the new person.
Consciousness in the birth,
consciousness in conception,
in breastfeeding,
and connecting with that child,
so the child feels loved and tended to.
So the mother would know what this baby needs.
Let's talk about that, and,
just as a little aside from my own experience.
I was told at a very young age I would never have children.
Impossible, for my body to have children.
However, I had dreams for about a dozen years,
of this perfect little son, whom,
as years have gone on, and I understand how the
realms work much better,
I understand this being was working with me.
The one who was to become my son
was working with me from the other side,
for many years--
Mmhmm.
right up to the moment of his own birth.
And I believe was instrumental
in getting his father and I together, even,
for a very specific purpose.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
And, when the time came,
his only way to make it into the world
was through a Cesarean Section.
And, we had no choice.
We'd both die, or he comes in this way.
Yeah, absolutely.
And so, for a being that co--
it's not as though we have to feel as though
we've robbed our child of something
because we've chosen a certain way,
or not-- in this case, not chosen a way
for them to come in,
because a soul is very resilient.
Mmhmm.
On the other hand,
being able to connect with that being consciously,
prior to birth--
Mmhmm.
seems to me, to be a huge part of the journey
of parenthood.
Yeah.
Far before the body comes in.
And I used to talk to babies,
for my friends and sister,
before the baby was born,
within that one week window, I could--
they would share with me what they were coming for,
and so forth, I would,
take notes in a meditation and then
pass that to the parents,
Yeah.
if they couldn't connect themselves.
But the reality is,
we can all connect ourselves, can't we?
Yeah, absolutely, and uh--
So let's talk about that part of how you
encourage people and help them.
To connect with the baby? (laughs)
To connect with the whole field,
the conscious aspect of the birth,
and learning to listen to the baby.
Mmhmm.
Well, the number one step is connect with yourself.
So, emotional presence in the body is what needs to
be developed or enforced or, created from scratch because,
of our own birth trauma,
most of us are not emotionally present in the body.
And it's very different kind of quality of presence,
than, for example, physical strength.
I know a lot of very fit, very
strong, you know, in great shape people, who are,
completely emotionally checked out.
They're clever.
They're very--
Their mind's functioning, yeah.
Yeah, the mind is functioning.
The cognitive function, you know.
They can do business.
They have good memory,
and they're in beautiful physical shape,
and they eat right,
and they do yoga day and night.
And at the same time,
full of self-loathing, and,
sort of, mistrust, and,
inability to just relax and enjoy
having that beautiful body.
So this is--
Yes.
That's true.
This exact piece is missing,
the emotional presence in the body that,
basically has another name of
loving yourself, and,
just being deeply relaxed about being who you truly are.
And for that, you need to know who you truly are.
And that mechanism of not being in the body,
is actually very simple function of our brain.
When we are experiencing some
emotional sensory overload--
doesn't have to be emotional,
it could be just a physiological threat--
Mmhmm.
Um, we check out.
Mmhmm, we do.
That's why lots of children don't remember the abuse.
That's why lots of victims of some horrifying
rape or crime--
It's a survival mechanism, sure.
They don't remember that.
And, if you would watch,
a scene of hunt in the wildlife, on some Discovery channel,
you would notice that,
the moment the lion catches the gazelle,
she goes,
you know, goes completely--
Just like we do when it's our death.
Right.
And she is still alive, right?
Yeah.
You can see her eyes are blinking,
and that she is still breathing,
Yeah.
but she's not there.
No.
Because nature assures that
we are not witnessing our body being
torn to pieces--
Absolutely.
you know, it's not nice.
So, this is what happens, that,
that mechanism of checking out,
is helping us not to deal with that sensory overload.
But then, that which checked out,
needs to be sort of, invited back.
And, are you saying that many of us
checked out upon our entry into the world
through our own births?
That is exactly what I'm saying, that,
Yeah.
that when the delivery is too harsh,
for the baby's sensory apparatus,
Mmhmm.
They just check out, and,
then they don't know how to find their way back in.
There is even a saying in English, that indicates that, um,
"You scared the life out of me."
Yes.
So what is it, that gets scared out?
Mmhmm.
I believe that it's that connection with the soul,
that basically gets interrupted,
and then the body is just dangling around, and,
without a host.
In a sense, yes,
or without it's, it's own spirit intact.
Right.
And living through the physical.
Right. Right, yeah.
So, we understand some of what happens
in the trauma, which sounds--
your description of what happened,
in Russia, in the past, in the birthing centers,
certainly exemplifies a very harsh reality.
Now let's talk about
what a reality could look like, and does look like,
in the work you do, and with the people you work with.
Well, that reality is very beautiful. (laughs)
It's very beautiful.
It's, first of all, the full program,
includes conscious conception,
which is a very deliberate connection
with the spirit of the unborn child,
and communion in the choice of
how this baby to be born, when, where?
Who is the other parent, (laughs) you know.
Yes.
Who is the father?
Because that baby has a--
So a woman can begin this before she
even has her mate.
Yeah.
It's a process of life.
Okay.
And even neuro-biology, basically, of the physiology,
the birth of the baby starts about
two, three months, prior to conception, because,
whatever the parents are doing, eating, not doing,
thinking, you know, all of that,
basically defines the quality of the sperm and the egg--
Right.
that will meet at some point, and,
start creating that body.
Mmhmm.
So, the summary of it is,
it's not a moment too soon. (laughs)
Yes.
If a couple is thinking about bringing a baby,
it's not a moment too soon.
And by the time it's a week before giving birth,
a lot of things are too late.
We really need to
bring it to schools.
That's where it needs to start.
The young girls, young boys, in their early teens,
need to understand the responsibility,
and the implications of that future decision
they will have to make.
And, statistically, in the U.S.,
by the time a young woman is pregnant with her first baby,
she is exposed to over 100 horrifying, bloody,
terrible scenes of births.
So, basically, we're conditioning our young women
to be scared of birth from the start.
Well, yes.
And certainly Hollywood is one of the greatest culprits.
Having women screaming, and
Yeah.
saying, "I hate you," to her husband--
Right.
for doing this to her, and
Or looking stupid and ugly.
tearing-- oh, yes, all of the--
And, it, but especially,
the footage of the birth that they choose to show
in 8th, 7th grade in Sex Ed class.
Oh, yes, we've all seen that, yeah.
Yeah.
The-- what they're showing nowadays,
girls are running out to puke in the bathroom
when they see--
Yeah.
what's happening to women.
They choose--
It's very painful for a girl to watch.
Right, and--
I can't imagine what it's like
for the boys to watch.
And they're so impressionable.
They're so--
they don't even have any other reference point,
because everything they hear about it,
from older sisters, from aunties, from the mother,
supports that image of birth being absolutely
unbearable and torturous.
And, that's not the truth.
No, and that's--
That's not the truth. (laughs)
When I was in that situation, of the trauma,
before my son was taken out of me,
I went into a state of hypnosis, spontaneously,
and it was in maximum contractions and labor.
Mmhmm.
It was beautiful.
I just felt like ocean waves running through my body.
I felt no pain. None.
That's exactly what it is.
The female body produces
floods of oxytocin, which is the, "feel good" hormone.
Yeah, it's great.
It's dopamine.
And the amount that is produced at birth,
is basically, multiply any amount,
that orgasmic sensation,
Yes.
in sexual experience are,
being produced.
So basically, ecstasy and bliss and orgasm,
in the-- during birth, is the norm.
Physiologically, that's what's supposed to happen.
But if you're conditioned to believe
you're going to be--
Right.
screaming and sweating, and--
just wretching through the whole thing.
Exactly, that's the thing, that,
our brain chemistry either produces
dopamines or stress hormones.
Mmhmm.
It cannot do both.
So if it is producing all the adrenaline,
it can not produce oxytocin.
And the thing is that,
when we are, just, you know,
a split second of production of any kind of adrenalines,
our cervix locks.
And the women in these hospitals
Right.
are running on adrenaline.
Exactly.
And fear.
That's what happens, because,
that is, again, the very wise, merciful, mechanism
of protecting the species.
Because, imagine that you're there, in the bushes somewhere,
trying to give birth,
and you hear the sound or scent of a predator.
You need to be able to run for your life.
Yeah.
And not drop the baby, right?
Right.
So that's the mechanism that the cervix just
closes completely.
What needs to happen, if she manages to run away,
within 30, 40 minutes, the oxytocin takes over,
and cervix relaxes,
and within an hour, it opens.
Yes.
But, when you're--
But when you're lying in the hospital
on your back--
Right. Right.
And the nurse comes in and starts asking you,
"What is your social security number?"
Yeah.
Or, comes with a needle, and,
"Well, this will make you feel better."
It's really, very little option,
that there is just some space to relax,
and to just drop into that oxytocin production mode,
when there is all the strangers coming in,
and doing stuff to you.
And the smells and the sounds of the hospital.
And you're cold.
Usually you're cold in a little gown.
You're cold, and you're uncomfortable, and--
Mmhmm.
It's very disorienting.
It's really, really difficult to get to that, you know--
Cut the rest of the world and
come back to your oxytocin production.
But that's exactly what will open the cervix.
So, if that's not happening, then we need a
a sharp metal object, to open that cervix.
Mmhmm.
And, the trauma begins,
or the trauma has already begun,
Yeah.
because the mother's in fear.
The baby is getting all those chemicals
through their own system, as a result of that.
Right, that's the thing,
that placenta does not filter
a majority of the drug.
Right.
And, it goes into baby's nervous system,
and disorients the baby, and there we go.
When the drug was introduced into the delivery room,
in the '40's, there we go.
The drug culture of the '60's.
They're so related.
They're-- basically, one is the direct result of the other.
And I don't see why it's being so
deliberately overlooked.
Mmm.
The drug becomes the comfort zone.
It becomes limbic programming of the nervous system,
that in order for us to feel good,
we need to have some chemical induction.
Mmhmm.
Now that makes perfect sense.
Yeah.
So when you're taking--
Let's go back to, you and working with your people,
that come to you in groups, and, you're--
Now, let's say, you've already explained the value,
and helped people understand the value of
of clearing the space, and,
what it's going to be to create the birthing field,
and to begin connecting with the baby--
the entity, the soul, that will become this little baby--
prior to the birth, and begin intuiting what kind of birth
this being is going to prefer on its arrival.
What else happens in that period of time?
Well, what needs to happen is,
to actual manual adjustment,
of the basic settings in the nervous system.
Because, all that programming happens
before the cognitive functions evolve in the cortex.
So you can't really fix the problem,
through cognitive process,
through talking or thinking about it.
You need to go to where
the problem was created.
You're talking about the parent.
Yeah.
The parent, in dealing with their own emotional--
issues and such, that they're being to the table.
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, anybody who wants to alter their own basic settings.
Yes.
That's who I'm talking about.
So what I'm saying is that
you can't talk your way out of it.
You need to
tweak those basic settings in the nervous system,
on the cellular level, on a much, sort of,
parallel reality, parallel world.
Because our limbic brain, where that imprinting happens,
is not connected with the cortex.
Again, due to that,
sensory overload,
in our formative period.
It divorces them.
Logic is in the cortex,
and the imprinting is in the limbic brain,
that governs the emotion and sensation.
So are you talking about physical manipulations?
Well--
In working with the release? Or...
That's the thing, that's--
there is also a third player.
Reptilian brain.
Yes.
That is responsible for pure physiology.
So, cognitive function is cortex.
Reptilian brain is pure physiology.
And limbic brain is the emotional body.
So, when you activate and work through
just one of them--
either talk therapy, or say through Reptilian brain.
when you try to access it through the body,
physical manipulation,
Yoga, dance, massage, Craniosacral, you know, all,
the work, the healing work, that addresses the body.
That's where it goes forever.
Because you either work with this one or with this one.
The trick is to work with them together,
at the same time.
And how do you work with the limbic?
Well, yeah, that's the thing.
Then you need to actually bring the whole team together.
Mmhmm.
And make them in harmony.
Make all the three voices,
sing in harmony, instead of in discord.
And that's exactly, you know,
that's exactly the metaphor.
It's all coming down to frequencies,
so we need to harmonize those frequencies.
Because,
most people don't have them harmonized.
Right.
Yeah.
So, the way I work with it,
I have about a dozen different
techniques or processes or exercises, whatever
word would work for them.
They're all very, very different.
But they take, on average, each one of them takes,
between two and three hours.
And they include a lot of
different ways that I address
all three parts of the brain at the same time.
Mmhmm.
Through very specific movement,
very specific breathing,
very specific different kind of movement,
very specific different kind of breathing, and,
sort of, offering,
semi-hypnotic state at the same time.
Mmhmm.
So, it's not done in a regular cognitive state of
mind.
Mmhmm.
But in the slightly altered state,
where you can actually access the deeper memory,
from before the actual birth.
Yes.
So this is how you begin--
Yeah.
to create this integration within the parent--
Mmhmm.
Yeah.
So, between all of those experiences--
it's very experiential.
I do very little talking in my workshops, it's like,
do all the homework before you come,
because I don't really have time, we don't.
The shortest workshop is two days.
So we only have 16 hours, you know,
eight hour days, to,
bring you to completely different
quantum experience of owning your body, so,
the talking, you can do the reading,
you can watch my movie.
All the talking is sort of,
a preliminary pre-requisite for the workshop.
But in the workshop, it's mainly the
Self-assessment--
Mmhmm.
of where you are, where you want to be,
and getting there.
Mmhmm.
And so, once the parent has gone through this,
or person has gone through this,
who is not a parent-in-waiting yet (laughs),
what-- Let's talk about the next part,
which is then the bringing through
of the soul into the body.
And the baby, bringing the body through.
The birth.
Well, what's there to talk about? (laughs)
Yes. (laughs) So the parents prepared.
You've now communicated with--
Mmhmm.
the being, and the being has told you,
"I'm not a water baby."
Mmhmm.
"I wanna be in a nice, snuggly warm bed,
"with feathers around me," or whatever they have said.
And then, are there some links in that process
that are then, or techniques that you share,
to keep the woman's body,
in this state of, as you say, this oxytocin-flowing
state of grace,
where you program it, so to speak,
to expect pleasure, instead of pain?
Well, I don't do anything, they--
I don't go and create all those feathers for them.
It's--
But I mean, you've given them the--
Right.
understanding this is possible.
Right, right.
Yes.
And then, they just need to
maintenance is their own responsibility.
Yes.
(laughter)
I know that you're not going and
holding their hand through the birth.
That's not what I'm suggesting.
Yeah--
But that process of,
getting their mind confident and ready,
Yeah.
and clear, to expect,
an experience that is transformational,
more ecstatic than painful,
Yeah.
and transmuting the pain into something
more, not just manageable, but even ecstatic.
Yeah.
Even orgasmic.
So you've already--
Your workshop-- you've already helped the people
on this level, to expect this,
Yeah.
so this is the expectation.
Let's talk about what happens when something goes wrong.
I think a lot of people in the Western culture,
don't embrace doing something different,
because, "oh my God, what if something went wrong,
Mmhmm.
"and I wasn't in the right place to have someone respond
"to the situation?"
I mean, it was through sheer intuition
that I happened to be in the hospital
when everything broke loose, and,
there was a team right there to--
Mmhmm.
get the baby out.
But, that was because I am intuitive,
and I was listening,
and I happened to be on the way there anyway.
Mmhmm.
But, what about the average person that
maybe doesn't feel confident in their intuition?
Mmhmm.
How, in this process, would you advise them,
in the off chance something were to go wrong?
Well, again, I don't.
That's the thing, that, there is,
My ability is limited by their own willingness
to open and,
and how much are they interested in
connecting with themselves, with their baby, you know.
There is not much I can do about it.
Mmhmm.
What I am offering is,
the two day workshop offers the equivalent of
getting a new software.
Right.
For our hard drive.
The second two days,
level two of my workshop,
is equivalent of installing of that software.
The next two days is,
learning to use it, and practicing.
So, this is basically, this is what I am offering.
Mmhmm.
And this is what I am responsible for offering this.
Yes.
So if they're--
And I have a pretty good track record.
I think, maybe 98% success,
that nothing goes wrong in birth.
That's what I wanted to ask.
If the people are prepared,
if the woman is prepared in this way,
if the body is relaxed and you allow natural processes,
Yeah.
then you likely aren't going to run into
those kinds of problems,
Exactly.
unless you have a structural issue, like I have.
Unless you have a mechanical,
Yeah.
or, sports injury, or--
Mmhmm.
You know, a car accident, or,
really just inborn,
some problem, with the pelvic floor, so.
So, in which case, you know--
Right.
You should know that,
and be aware, maybe, position yourself,
Exactly.
so you're not far from help if you need it.
Right, exactly.
And still relax into the process and don't worry.
Right, and even with C-section,
it could be conscious C-section.
Mmhmm.
Dimming the lights.
Asking the delivery team,
be respectful and quiet.
They don't have to yell and,
"whooo, whoo," you know,
making all those loud noises.
They can be mindful,
Yes.
how they-- just put an instrument,
instead of just throwing them and,
creating this big bang.
Or, you know,
not wiping the baby's skin like it's a kitchen counter,
and you know, making the baby just stress out,
from the crude handling.
Mmhmm.
But treat the baby gently.
Give baby a bath right away,
and put on momma's breast.
And breastfeed right away,
Mmhmm.
and keep them together.
And there is so many things that,
That could be done to
make even a C-section into
softer and more reasonable,
Yes.
from the baby's point of view.
experience.
Circumcision, that's a big one.
Oh, boy.
That's a big one, that,
I don't know if you want to even go there, but--
Well, let's talk about voluntary C-section.
A huge percentage of women say,
Right.
"I wanna know when I'm having the baby.
"I don't want it to go past a certain point."
Mmhmm.
"Don't want those
"last few weeks of stretch marks."
I mean, some really, a large perc--
and the doctors, themselves,
don't wanna be called out on the weekend.
Right.
What do you have to say about this?
Well, I want to say that,
there is price for everything.
You know, the convenience of knowing
when exactly it happens,
might be inconvenience of then having
sleepness nights for the next two years.
Because the baby's digestive system
is compromised.
The breathing system is compromised.
Then, all the drama that comes with the baby
not going through the birth canal,
just because of the convenience of the timing.
It creates so many more inconveniences,
in handling that baby that
has a inactivated digestive system.
You know, it's really, it doesn't pay off.
And the thing is that,
it's a major abdominal surgery.
Yes, it is.
It's a major abdominal surgery,
that the woman's body gets an assault.
You know, on all systems.
So inconvenience in time, again, is not worth it.
If there is a way of avoiding it,
Mmhmm.
I would encourage women to really do a research.
First of all, there is a lot of research
available already.
There is 15 years of research on
birth psychology that come, that shows all the
very dramatic emotional, psychological,
physiological side effects,
for the baby and the mother.
Just, do your homework.
Mmhmm.
This is what I basically want to say.
If you're not
bound to have the C-section,
just because this is what is happening, with the baby.
And that's the thing that,
if baby doesn't want the C-section,
with that particular mother,
that baby would have chosen a different mother,
that would be able to avoid C-section.
Mmhmm.
So, C-section is,
the true medical indication for C-section is
a very specific journey
Yes.
that both the mother and the baby are undertaking.
But if it's just laziness.
If it's just a social kind of, fad.
I know that women in Brazil right now,
there is 90% C-section rate in Brazil.
Oh my God.
And those underprivileged,
that could not afford C-section,
they tattoo scars on their belly to pretend like they did.
(Regina sighs heavily)
Yeah.
Okay, well--
It's gone that far.
Yeah.
And, even sometimes, they actually cut the skin,
to make it like a real scar,
because it's a sign of prestige.
Yeah.
That's a sign of privileged lifestyle, you know,
to show up in your bikini with that--
Well, and to an up-and-coming nation--
pretty scar.
you know, we can't judge that.
We don't understand the psychology.
Yeah.
But, we can see it's another reflection--
just as Siberia.
Just as the coldness--
Right.
and harshness of the--
American experience,
they're simply out of balance.
Right, and actually,
a few Brazilian women told me
that their decision for C-section was because
Angelina Jolie had a C-section. (laughs)
Oh God. (laughs)
They're so--
Well, there ya go.
Mmkay. So.
So, going back to
the preparation for birth,
most of the complications are avoidable.
Mmhmm.
Unless they are,
physiological, mechanical.
Real, you know, health issue.
Mmhmm.
Then, the great majority of them,
is emotional and psychological.
And so, you say
with the clients you've worked with,
you're talking a 98%.
Yeah.
And would that be considered normal?
Is that normal?
I mean, we know that, historically,
a lot of women died in childbirth in past times.
Uh, actually, no.
Didn't they?
No, it's a myth.
Is that a myth?
Yes, it is a myth, it's--
You read all these...
Now it's not true?
Well, certainly in genealogy you run into some of this, but.
You know, it's a very convenient myth,
that childbirth is inherently dangerous.
Yeah.
But it's not the reality.
The thing is that,
yes, we used to have high mortality.
But it's not due to the design of the procreation.
It's due to, malnutrition.
Yes.
Due to severe abuse of the woman.
Due to wars, and plagues, and, just--
Lack of hygiene, many things.
Hygiene is the biggest one.
Yes, yeah.
But also, just think about it.
Throughout most of the history of humankind,
women were given into the wifely situation,
into wifely duty, before even childbearing age.
Yes.
Yes, so we can understand--
Just bring to consideration that--
So there were other--
Right.
If you have a normal, healthy person,
who has chosen their mate.
Right.
And who is conceiving the baby out of love, and
going through this natural process,
statistically, we should have what?
98%, like your success rate?
Yeah.
That's beautiful.
That's the thing, that,
we don't have a good track record as a specie.
Our history is very violent, very, bloody,
and emotionally, not healthy, you know?
Historically, we are, for the first time,
where women can choose their partners.
Where bringing a baby in love is even an option.
Yes.
Because, if we think about,
some village where a girl is given away,
basically into slavery.
Not only to the husband that she never saw before.
But to all his brothers, and all the wives of his brothers,
and the worst of all, his mother.
Yes.
And his father, then the auntie, so, basically.
Is she happy being pregnant?
Yeah.
Does she even want that baby?
Right, that--
Yeah.
Thank you for explaining--
Yes.
all the factors that surround
the mortality of the past.
Yes, and that's the thing--
Yeah.
If a woman is depressed.
If she is completely disoriented.
If she's lonely, all her girlfriends are,
left back at home, you know.
Three days' horse ride.
Mmhmm.
Or in African village, where there's--
women are circumsized,
Yes.
and the childbirth is basically,
the worst human torture possible,
Yeah.
through a circumsized yoni.
So, we don't really have
a good historical
overview of what childbirth mortality would look like,
if women are in their power.
If women are emotionally healthy, and,
nutritionally supported.
And when they're not stressing out,
how they're gonna feed that baby, and, you know.
Yeah.
Well, all I can say, cause I know we are
just about out of tape here, is,
thank you.
To thank you, for the many years you've put into this,
and helping us understand this and bring this back to
a joyful experience.
A powerful experience, that it should be.
Yes.
And any final thoughts?
We have just a couple minutes.
The final thought is that,
that supreme intelligence that created
the miraculous bodies that we have,
that has built in mechanism for healing, for
amazing amount of pleasure.
Every skin-- every cell on our skin
has a pleasure receptacle.
It's, they're for a good reason, (laughs) trust me.
So, that supreme intelligence did not overlook
such a basic function as procreation.
Yes.
Let's just trust that supreme intelligence
that created us in the first place,
and it did not mean us to suffer through
creating the next generation.
We are meant to bring the next generation
in love and dignity.
And bring in heaven to Earth.
Just in one generation, this is where I'm standing.
This is what I'm working for.
I believe that we are 20 years away from heaven on Earth.
On that note,
I'm with you on that one, and thank you,
so much for your wisdom and your time.
My pleasure. (laughs)
It was my pleasure to speak with you.
You can learn more about Elena's birthing preparation,
by going to her website at birthasweknowit.com.
She gives classes around the world,
which give prospective parents and singles both,
an opportunity to work through
our own birth-related trauma.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.
(ethereal angelic vocal music)